Hello.  My name is Marty DeBergi.  I'm a film maker.  I make a lot of
commercials. That little dog that chases the covered wagon underneath the
sink? That was mine. In 1966, I went down to Greenwich Village, New York City
to a rock club called the Electric Banana. Don't look for it, it's not there
anymore. But that night I heard a band that for me redefined the word "rock
and roll". I remember being knocked out by their, their exuberance, their raw
power... and their punctuality. That band was Britain's now-legendary Spinal
Tap.

Seventeen years and fifteen albums later, Spinal Tap is still going
strong, and they've earned a distinguished place in rock history as one of
England's loudest bands. So in the late fall of 1982 when I heard that Tap
was releasing a new album called 'Smell the Glove', and was planning their
first tour of the United States in almost 6 years to promote that album, well
needless to say I jumped at the chance to make the documentary, the, if you
will, rockumentary that you're about to see.

I wanted to capture the, the sights, the sounds, the smells, of a hard-working
rock band on the road. And I got that. But I got more, a lot more. But hey,
enough of my yakkin'. Whaddaya say, let's boogie!

It's like you become one with the guys in the band. I mean there's, there's
no division, you just, the music just unites people, with the players.

Let's... uh talk a little bit about the history of the group. I understand
Nigel you and David originally started the band back in... when was it...
back in 1964?

Well before that we were in different groups, I was in a group
called The Creatures and which was a skiffle group. I was in Lovely Lads.
Yeah. And then we looked at each other and says well we might as well join up
you know and uh... So we became The Originals.

Right. And we had to change our name actually... Well there was, there was
another group in the east end called The Originals and we had to rename
ourselves. The New Originals. The New Originals and then, uh, they became...
The Regulars, they changed their name back to The Regulars and we thought
well, we could go back to The Originals but what's the point? We became The
Thamesmen at that point.

Your first drummer was, uh? The peeper, Joe stumpy Pepys, great great, uh,
tall blond geek, with glasses uh, good drummer. Great look, good drummer.
Good, good drummer. Fine drummer. What happened to him? He died, he, he died
in a bizarre gardening accident some years back. It was really one of those
things, it was, you know, the authorities said, you know, well best leave it
unsolved, really, you know.

And he was replaced by, uh? Stumpy Joe - Eric Stumpy Joe Childs. What
happened to Stumpy Joe? Well, uh, it's not a very pleasant story, but, uh, he
died, uh, he choked on, the official explanation was he choked on vomit. He
passed away. It was actually, was actually someone else's vomit. It's ugly.
You know. There's no real... You know they can't prove whose vomit it was,
they don't have the facilities at Scotland Yard. You can't print, there's no
way to print a spectra-photograph. You can't really dust for vomit.

How are you? Ian! Hi fellas, how you doing... Come over here. I want you to
meet everybody. Yes, Bobbi Flekman - the hostess with the mostest. You know,
you know. Hi, handsome. How you doing? Alright, listen I want you all to meet
Sir Dennis Eton-Hogg, now he's the head of Polymer. You don't talk so much -
just smile and look smart. Dennis, come here...come here I want you to meet
Spinal Tap, our guests of honor.

I did the bird, do the dead bird... change this, get the dwarf canoles the
little ones... I did the bird... C'mon, don't talk back huh... mime is money,
let's go come on; move it!

Now, we here at Polymer we're all looking forward to a long and... and... and
fruitful relationship with Spinal Tap. We wish them great success on their
North American tour and so say all of us... Tap into America!

Excuse me...are you reading "Yes I Can"? By Sammy Davis Jr.? You know what
the title of that book should be? "Yes I Can if Frank Sinatra Says it's
Okay". Cause Frank calls the shots for all of those guys . Did you get to the
part yet where uh... Sammy is coming out of the Copa... it's about 3:00 in
the morning and uh... he sees Frank? Frank's walking down Broadway by
himself...

You know Frank Sinatra it's a different world that they're in. You know, it's
just that people like this, you know, they get all they want so they don't
really understand, you know, about a life like Frank's, I mean, you know when
you've loved and lost the way Frank has, then you, uh, you know what life's
about.

The Times may even do something. The New York Times? Yeah, the New York
Times. The bump we've got to iron out here is when do we get the album
released. I mean it doesn't matter how good the press is or what the
stringers... As I explained last night you know we're not gonna saturate the
New York market... now Philly now that's a real rock and roll town. Oh,
Philly's great. Be assured that the album will be available all throughout
the Philadelphia metropolitan area. So you are hitting that market regardless
of how we're selling in New York? We are doing, we certainly are doing, well,
I'm doing everything I can. That's right. We are not blaming you, you know
that we're not blaming you.

But you don't feel these guys have an effect on an audience, I mean, kids go
to their concert they have a great time, uhh. But it's, it's a passing thing,
it's uh... I mean I would never tell them this but this is, uh, this is a
fad.

Let's talk about your reviews a little bit... regarding 'Intravenus de Milo':
"This tasteless cover is a good indication of the lack of musical invention
within. The musical growth rate of this band cannot even be charted. They are
treading water in a sea of retarded sexuality and bad poetry".

'The Gospel According to Spinal Tap': "This pretentious ponderous collection
of religious rock psalms is enough to prompt the question: "What day did the
Lord create Spinal Tap and couldn't he have rested on that day too?"

The review you had on 'Shark Sandwich'... which was merely a two word
review - just said "shit sandwich."

All those arguments about touring or not touring and all that it's obvious we
belong on tour, you know... I couldn't agree more. All that stuff about you
being too old and you being too white but...

But what about the album, Ian? Well that's the real problem there's no way
to promote something that doesn't exist, you know... It's a very unimportant
reason, it's just that they're experimenting with, with some new uh...
packaging materials. Let me get the door.

What kind of experimenting? What they got monkeys opening it or what?

Oh there's uhh...the other thing is that the uh...the Boston gig has been
cancelled. What? Yeah. I wouldn't worry about it though, it's not a big
college town.

I heard you boys got an album coming out. Yeah, it should be out now, it's
called Smell the Glove. Smell the Glove? It's a provocative title. Wait till
you see the cover, wait till you see the cover, very provocative indeed.

Bobbi, Bobbi, can I tear you away from all of this? Do you have a drink?
Everything ok? No, I don't, I don't really need one. But, listen, um, I
really, I really do have to talk to you a bit about this, uh, this whole
issue of the, uh, the issue of the cover. Uh, we feel, I mean, we feel and it
seems to be facts that, uh, the company is rather down on the cover. Is that
the case? You can give it to me straight, you know.

Listen umm... they don't like the cover, they don't like the cover. They find
it very offensive and very sexist. Ian, you put a greased naked woman on all
fours with a dog collar around her neck, and a leash, and a man's arm
extended out up to here holding on to the leash and pushing a black glove in
her face to sniff it. You don't find that offensive, you don't find that
sexist? No I don't, this is 1982, Bobbi, come on. That's right it's 1982 get
out of the 60's we don't have this mentality any more. Well you shoulda seen
the cover they wanted to do. It wasn't a glove believe me.

And I don't think that a sexy cover is the answer for why an album sells or
doesn't sell because you tell me, the "White Album", what was that? There was
nothing on that goddamn cover.

They are not gonna release the album... because they have decided that the
cover is sexist. Well so what? What's wrong with being sexy? I mean there's
no... Sex-ist, "-ist", not sexy. Okay, listen I wanted to tell you this and
I was holding back because I didn't know what Dennis' decision was going to
be, but at this point both Sears and K-Mart stores have refused to handle the
album. They're boycotting the album only because of the cover. If the first
album had been a hit... If the company is behind the album it can shove it
right down their throats.

It's a matter of compromise, we made a joke, and it was a long time ago,
they're making it like a big deal. That's true. You know, if we were serious
and we said "yes she should be forced to sniff... smell the glove" then you'd
have a point you know but it's all a joke, isn't it, we're making fun of that
sort of thing. It is and it isn't, she should be made to smell it, but... But
not you know over and over again.

What's that on your finger? That's my gum! What's it doing on your finger? I
might need it later. Put it on the table, that's terrible. Well... I might
forget it on the table. You can't take him anywhere.

How old were you guys when you met? Eight years old. Eight or nine. You were
eight and I was seven. That's right, yeah. Do you remember the first song
that you guys ever wrote together? All the Way Home, probably. All the Way
Home? Yeah. Can you remember a little bit of it? I'd love to hear it. Christ.
Some black coffee maybe we could do it.

How's it go? "I'm standing out beside
the railroad track... and I'm waiting for that train to bring you back... if,
if, if, if, if she's not on the the 5:19 then I'm gonna know what sorrow
means... and I'm gonna cry, cry, cry all the way home... all the way home...
all the way home... Cry, cry, cry all the way home... fairly simple...
there's about six words in the whole song, you know. Just repeat them over
and over again.

Let's talk about your music today... uh... one thing that puzzles me... um...
is the make up of your audience seems to be... uh... predominately young
boys.

Well it's a sexual thing, really isn't it. Aside from the identifying
the boys do with us there's also a reaction to the female... of the female to
our music. How did you put it? Really they're quite fearful - that's my
theory. They see us on stage with tight trousers we've got, you know,
armadillos in our trousers, I mean it's really quite frightening... the
size... and, and they, they run screaming.

Ian, can I have a word with you for a minute? ...uh, a couple of problems
with the... arrangements backstage... Well, uh.. Well, no, there's some
problems here, I don't even know where to start, alright? This, uh.. No, no,
no, no this... look, look, look, there's a little problem with the... look
this, this miniature bread. It's like... I've been working with this now for
about half an hour. I can't figure out... let's say I want a bite, right,
you've got this... You'd like bigger bread? Exactly! I don't understand
how... You could fold this though... Well, no then it's half the size. Not
the bread, you could fold the meat. Yeah, but then it, then it breaks up,
breaks apart like this. No, no, no, you put it on the bread like this, you
see... But then, if you keep folding it, it keeps breaking... And then you...
everything has to be folded, and then it's this, and I don't want this I want
large bread so that I can put this... so then it's like this, this does not
work because then... it's all... Nigel: Look... Would you be seen holding
this?

No, alright 'A', exhibit 'A', now we move on to this, look, look who's in
here? No one! And then in here there's a little guy, look! So it's, it's a
complete catastrophe. Calm d... good, no it's not a big deal, it's a joke,
it's really, it's... I know, Yeah, right, it's a joke, it's all a j...
Really, I don't want it to affect your performance. It's not gonna affect my
performance, don't worry about it, alright, just hate it, it's really... It
does disturb me. But I'll rise above it, I'm a professional, right?

This is the top of the heap right here. There's no question about it. Look at
the, look at the flame on that one... I mean it's just... it's quite
unbelievable. This one is just ah... is perfect... 1959... ah... you know, it
just, you can uh...listen! Just listen for a minute... The sustain...listen
to it... I'm not hearing anything. You would, though, if it were playing,
because it really... it's famous for its sustain... I mean, you could, just
hold it... Aaaaaaaaaaaaaa... You could go and have a bite and... aaaaaaaaa...
you'd still be hearin' that one.

This one... this 'course is a custom three-pickup 'Paul. This is my radio...
unit... So I strap this...this piece on, you know, right down in here when
I'm on stage and... It's a wireless. Wireless, exactly. And... uh I can play
without all the mucky-muck. You can run anywhere on stage with that. Exactly.

Now this is special, too, it's a... look... see... still got the uh... the
ol' tagger on it... see... never even played it... see... Don't touch it!
Don't touch it! No one...no one...no! Don't touch it. Well don't point, even.
No. It can't be played...never... I mean I... Can I look at it? No. No
you've seen enough of that one.

This is a top to a, you know, what we use on stage, but it's very... very
special because if you can see... the numbers all go to eleven. Look... right
across the board. Eleven... eleven... eleven... And most of these amps go up
to ten... Exactly. Does that mean it's... louder? Is it any louder? Well,
it's one louder, isn't it? It's not ten. You see, most... most blokes, you
know, will be playing at ten. You're on ten here... all the way up... all the
way up... all the way up. You're on ten on your guitar...where can you go
from there? Where? Nowhere. Exactly. What we do is if we need that extra...
push over the cliff... you know what we do? Put it up to eleven. Eleven.
Exactly. One louder. Why don't you just make ten louder and make ten be the
top... number...and make that a little louder? These go to eleven.

What's the difference between golf and miniature golf? I think it's-uh... The
walls. The holes are smaller?

Uh-oh- look out, here they come. Hold your breath. Duke! Duke! Can I have
your autograph? It's Duke. Duke! Duke!

It's OK, we know him, it's Spinal Tap. David St Hubbins,
Spinal Tap; Derek Smalls, Spinal Tap; Nigel... Listen, uh, where you playing
in town? You you playin' here?

We're doin' the Enormodome whatever it is.
It's terrific, it's a good house. We sold it out. Oh yeah big place outside
of town. Very nice. That's a big place. You sold it out?! What's that, twenty
thousand seats? We really should run, you know...

Good heavens. How are you,
Lenny? Great to see you, Terrific to see you. Uhhhhm... Liam! Ian. Ian. Ian.
Yeah, listen, we'd love to stand around and chat, but we've gotta sit down in
the lobby and wait for the limo.

Duke! Great to see you. See ya. See you, Duke. Good days. Good days... Fuckin'
wanker. What a wanker. What a wanker. Total no talent sod. He's got this much
talent, this much if he's lucky. We carried him. We had to apologize for him
with our set. That's right. That's right, yeah. People were still booing him
when we were on. It's all hype. It's all hype. It's all bought.

Lemme ask you something - lemme ask you something What? Have you seen Duke
Fame's current album? Have you seen the cover? It's a rather lurid cover, I
mean, ah, it's, it's like naked women, and, uh, he's tied down to this table,
and he's got these whips and they're all, semi-nude. Knockin' on him and it's
like much worse... Well the point is it's much worse than 'Smell the Glove'.
He releases that he's number three.

Because he's the victim. Their objections
were that she was the victim. You see? I see... Oh... Ah... That's alright,
if the singer's the victim, it's different. It's not sexist.

He did a twist
on it. A twist and it... He did, he did. He turned it around. We shoulda
thought of that. We were so close. I mean if we had all you guys tied up,
that probably woulda been fine. But it's, it's still a stupid cover. It's
such a fine line between stupid and... and clever. Yeah, and clever. Just
that little turnabout...

The last time Tap toured America, they where, uh, booked into 10,000 seat
arenas, and 15,000 seat venues, and it seems that now, on their current tour
they're being booked into 1,200 seat arenas, 1,500 seat arenas, and uh I was
just wondering, does this mean uh...the popularity of the group is waning?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no...no, no, not at all. I, I, I just think that
the.. uh.. their appeal is becoming more selective.

Yeah. Now, I notice this here, you've got this cricket bat here... Yes. Do
you play? No, I carry this partly of, uh, I don't know some sort of, uh, I
suppose what's the word... uh... Affectation? Yes, I mean it's, it's, a it's
a kind of totemestic thing you know, but to be quite frank with you, it's
come in useful in a couple of situations. Certainly in the topsy, turvy
world of heavy rock, having a good solid piece of wood in your hand is quite
often... useful.

I miss you too, darling... uhm, not too well, actually, well, we've got some
cancellations, that's all, we got to Memphis, and there is no gig in Memphis
and we found out that this, this promoter in the Mid-West has pulled out St.
Louis, and Kansas City, and uh... oh Des Moines... I don't know, it's in
Indiana or something... I thought... oh don't tease me, that's not until
April, great! We'll do it, oh good, oh, fucking great... Milwaukee...
Milwaukee, Wisconsin... I've no idea, you might have to take the plane to New
York, and then get, and then go to, uh, to Milwaukee from there. Oh, good I
love you too... okay, bye...

Ah, well, my problems are solved, mate! Who's that? Jeanine, she's going to
come meet us. She was supposed to do this this uh window layout for Neil
Kite's Boutique, but it's not until April. Is she coming to drop some stuff
off, you know, and then... and then go back? No, she's coming on her own,
she's going to travel with us, gonna go on the road with us. She says she can
hear that I'm eating too much sugar on the phone, she says my larynx is fat.

Turn it up, turn it up! You uh might want to come next door, the radio is
playing a bit of your past. Oh.., I don't believe it! Listen to this. Shhhhh.
Sounds good. Oh, yeah, going all the way back to 1965 that one... Don't it
feel good, with The Thamesmen and "Cups and Cakes". The Thamesmen later
changed their names to Spinal Tap. They had a couple of B-side hits they are
currently residing in the "where are they now?" file.

I'm not really sure this was such a great idea, I mean I don't feel any
better than I did at the hotel. He was going to do a TV special from here,
before he died. Yeah, that's right, the musical version of "Somebody Up There
Likes Me".

Well since my baby left me, I found a new place to dwell... well,
it's down at the end of Lonely Street, at Heartbreak Hotel. Do it, do it with
the harmony parts. Well since my baby left... The same key, though, I think.

Well since my baby left me... If I'm going: Well since my baby left me,
meeee... No, you can't hit that note! Mmmm... Well since my baby left me,
well, I found a new place to dwell... That's alright. Not really, not
really... Well it sounds raga, don't want to go raga on this stuff... No, not
with this you don't... Well since my baby left me, I found a new place to
dwell... It sounds... fuckin' barbershop... Barbershop raga. Hey, watch the,
watch the language, you're paying homage to the King! Oh sorry.

Well this is
thoroughly depressing. It really puts perspective on things, though, doesn't
it? Too much, there's too much fucking perspective now.

Now, during the Flower People period, who was your drummer? Stumpy's
replacement, Peter James Bond, he also died in mysterious circumstances. We
were playing a Festival... Jazz-blues festival, where was that? Blues-jazz
really. Blues-jazz festival... It was in the Isle of, it was in the Isle
of... Isle of Lucy. Isle of Lucy... jazz-blues festival. And it was tragic
really.

He exploded on stage. Just like that, he just went up. He just was
like a flash of green light and that was it, nothing was left. Well, there
was a little green globule on his drum seat. Like a stain, really. It was a
small stain, a globule, actually, and, you know several dozens of people
spontaneously combust each year, it's just not really widely reported.

Hello, hello, hello, hello. Testin', test, test, test, test "This is mic
number one, this is mic number one, isn't this a lot of fun?" okay, got the
mics... Two, two, let's do G. S. M, alright... G. S. M.

Hello, darling, hellooo, got a surprise for you. Where do you think I came
from? Bloody airplane, didn't I? Right? Visitor's Day. isn't it?

Here it is, lads! "Smell The Glove". Gather round. Where's David? David,
David, get up here! David, "Smell The Glove" is here. Hello, Jeanine. The
moment we've all been waiting for. Here we go, plenty for everybody. Here you
are. I never thought I'd see... I never thought I'd live to see the day.

Is this the test pressing? No, this is it, yes, that's right. This is "Smell
The Glove" by Spinal Tap. That's "Smell The Glove" that's, that's the jacket
cover, it's going out across the country in every store. This is the
compromise we made... this is the compromise you made?

Is it going to say anything here, or here along the spine? It's not going to
say anything?

No, it's not going to say anything. It's going to be like this, all black...
No, it's going to be that simple, beautiful, classic!

Does look a little bit like, you know, black leather. You can see yourself
in... both sides. It's like a black mirror.

Well, I think it looks like death...it looks like
mourning. I mean it looks...

David, David, every, every movie, in every cinema is about death; death sells!

I think he's right, there is something
about this, that's that's so black, it's like: "How much more black could
this be?" and the answer is: "None, none... more black."

Given the history of Spinal Tap drummers, uh, in the past, do you have any
fears, uh, for your life? When I did join, you know, they did tell me, they
kind of took me aside and said "Well, Mick, ah, you know it's like this" and
it did kind if freak me out a bit, but it can't always happen to every, can
it? Right... right, the law of averages says... that you will survive.

Ohh, quite exiting, quite exiting this computer magic, wheeeee... How many uh
planets have you destroyed, Viv? Well, four or five, fifth time around I
think... really five galaxies gone, you know...

Can I take it off now? Why? Too hot in here? No, it's... it's, I thought I
might go back to see what they're up to back there you know, I don't think
they really need to see this until you've finished with it, you know. Well,
you were reading, you can, you can read here. Yeah, but, they, they've got a
game back there, thought I maybe I have a look at the new game, it's like a
submarine thing.

Before I met Jeanine, my life was cosmically in shambles, it was, ah, I was
using bits and pieces of whatever Eastern philosophies happened to drift
through my transom and she sort of sorted it out for me, straightened it out
for me, gave me a path, you know, a path to follow.

Oh, yeah, I mean listen to him when he's experimenting, and things like that,
don't I? He's, he plays things to me, sometimes when he's worked up, and he's
got a new bit he wants to tell me about, you know, and I say "Yeah,that's
good", or "that's bad", or "that's shit" or whatever, you know. Yes, she is
very honest, she is brutally frank.

Well, how does that go over with the other band members? I mean, you... Well,
what happens is that she gives me the brutally frank version and I sort of
tart it up for them. Of course, you know, it's so strange because Nigel and
Jeanine are so similar in so many ways, but they just can't, they don't
dislike each other at all... No. There's great love between the two of
them... Oh, yes... But, they just, there's some sort of communication that's
just not, just blocked or something.

Yeah, I like it, just been fooling about with it for a few months now, very
delicate... Yeah, it's part of a... trilogy really, a musical trilogy I'm
doing, in, D minor, which I always find is really the saddest of all keys
really. I don't know why, but it makes people weep instantly. You play a
"baaaaa... baaaaaa..." it's the horn part. "...baaaa, baaaaa...", yeah, just
simple lines intertwining, you know very much like, I'm really influenced by
Mozart and Bach, It's sort of in between those, really, it's like a Mach
piece really, it's... What do you call this? Well, this piece is called "Lick
My Love Pump".

What are you doing to me here? I'm not doing anything. I thought we had a
relationship here ... I don't know what happened? Business is terrible,
Artie, what can I tell you... this is the truth. I know business is terrible,
but what happens with the with the record store with the promotion, and no
one shows up! This isn't a personal thing Artie, nobody's coming in the store
to... Forget personal thing. We had a relationship here, forget about
personal, what about a relationship?... I feel like a shlub, I don't know
what's happening, It's me, that's what happening. It's me, I did it, it's my
fault. We were told massive radio support. We did! We did massive.
Vast...they said vast radio support. We did massive, we saturated, we over
saturated. That's what it is, It's me, I did it, I fucked up, I fucked up the
timing, that's all, I fucked up the timing, I've got no timing, I've got no
timing, I've got NO timing. You know what I want you to do? Will you do
something for me? Do me a favor, just kick my ass, okay? Kick this ass for a
man, that's all, kick my ass, enjoy! C'mon, I'm not asking, I'm telling with
this, kick my ass!

Well we've kept 'em waiting long enough. Let's do it to them. C'mon Mick!
Let's go Mr. Shrimpton! Let's rock'n roll! Rock 'n roll! Let's go then! Yeah.
Yeah mate! Going to be a hot one isn't it? It's going to be a great show. No
it's not an exit. Not an exit. We don't want an exit. No, that's true. Try
this way. I hope so. This way. Wait, this looks familiar, though...it really
does. Listen. Shit. Let's not lose it though! Let's not lose it... Where the
fuck is Ian? You know he should be here. We got to get to it someway. We've
been on stage right? We're in the group. We're in the group that's playing
tonight.

You go right straight through this door here, down the hall... turn right...
and then there's a little jog there, about thirty feet... jog to the left...
A jog? We don't have time for that. Go straight ahead... We trust you. We
trust you. ...go straight ahead, go straight ahead, turn right the next two
corners, and the first door the sign "Authorized Personnel Only"... Open that
door, that's the stage! You think so? You're authorized. You're musicians
aren't you? We've got guitars yeah. Alright! Thank you. Thank you very much.

Rock 'n roll!!! Rock and roll!!! Let's get it! Let's get it! This way? No,
this way. I see, this way. Straight through. Rock 'n' roll! Hello Cleveland!
Hello Cleveland!!! Let's go! Fuck! You must've made a wrong turn. We gotta go
another way. Other way. Other way. Other way. Other way. Other way.

I hate to keep harping on this, but I think that the notion of a black album
has really cursed us, in a way.

Believe me, we're getting some very
substantial reports of airplay. I don't think we have to worry about that.

You know, it might have been better if the, uh, album had been mixed right.
Well I suppose you could cry about that, of course it's true. I mean it's
true. It wasn't... it was mixed all wrong, wasn't it? It was mixed wrong?

Yeah... Were you there? ...you couldn't hear the... How do you know it was
mixed wrong? But she's... she's heard the... she's heard the record. No, but
I've heard the album. So you're judgement is that it was mixed wrong. You
couldn't hear the lyrics all over it. You don't agree that you can't hear the
vocals? No, I don't. I do not agree. No. Well I think maybe... It's
interesting that she's bringing it up. Well she'd like to hear the vocals. I
mean it's like it's me saying, you know, you're using the wrong conditioner
for your hair.

You don't, you don't do heavy metal in dubly, you know, I mean... it's... In
what? In what? In dubly... In dubly? What's that? She means Dolby, alright?
She means Dolby, you know? You know perfectly well what she means.

Can I have... can I have the floor for just one moment because I've got, you
know, something I'd like to show you. These, uh, Jeanine's been working on
these very hard. These are a new direction... a stage look... for the band
fashioned after the signs of the zodiac. This is a look for Viv - he's a
Libra. There's sort of the ying, yang... sort of look. This is Nigel. He's,
he's uh, Capricorn. Sort of a goat look. Is this a joke? Excuse me, is this a
joke? A joke? Just bear with us for one moment please. This... I love this. I
wish I were cancer. This is your crab face. Give me a chance! Give it a
chance.

David. David. David. Wait, please, wait a minute. Have you any idea what it
will costs to dress up the band as animals? Oh, it don't cost nothing. It
really doesn't. They're not animals, they're signs of the zodiac. They're
animals. It's a way to fight the drabs. You know we've got the drabs. Well
that's true. I think mine would look good - better in dubly. If it was done
in dubly.

May I make a suggestion? May I make a suggestion? I've got one other
suggestion. Well let's hear yours. Let's hear your suggestion. Stonehenge!
Stonehenge. It's the best production value we've ever had on stage.

But we haven't got the equipment. We haven't got the equipment, we haven't got
Stonehenge, we haven't... Not yet we don't. Let's start... Please, please
just a moment. Musically, musically we all know it. Musically we all know it.
Right? No problems musically. We go right on stage. And it's quite simple.
This is you know... Ian can take care of this... I know what the Stonehenge
monument looks like. We don't have that piece of scenery anymore. I know, so
we build a new one. And this is it, look! Consider... consider it done. So
you're just going to take care of it like that. You're going to find someone
to design it... using that as a plan? Let's try. Let's try. If you can do it,
I'll do the number.

This looks actually perfect. I mean it's, uh, the right proportions. It'll be
this color right? Yeah. That's... that's... that's just terrific. It almost
looks like the real thing. When we get the actual, uh, set, when we get the
piece, it'll... it'll follow exactly these specifications. I mean even these
contours and everything? Um, I'm not understanding it. What do you mean "the
actual piece?" Well I mean... I mean when you build the actual piece... But
this is what you asked for, isn't it? What? Well this is the piece. This is
the piece? Yes.

Are you telling me that this is it? This is scenery? Have you
ever been to Stonehenge? No, I haven't been to Stonehenge. The triptychs
are... the triptychs are twenty feet high. You can stand four men up them!
Ian, I was... I was... I was supposed to build it eighteen inches high. This
is insane. This isn't a piece of scenery. Look, look. Look, this is what I
was asked to build. Eighteen inches. Right here, it specified eighteen
inches. I was given this napkin, I mean... Forget this! Fuck the napkin!!!

I do not, for one, think that the problem was that the band was down. I think
that the problem may have been...that there was a Stonehenge monument on the
stage that was in danger of being crushed by a dwarf. Alright? That tended to
understate the hugeness of the object.

I really think you're just making a much too big thing out of it.
Making a big thing out of it would've been a good idea.

Nigel gave me a drawing that said eighteen inches. Alright? I know
he did, and that's what I'm talking about. Now, whether he knows the
difference between feet and inches is not my problem. I do what I'm told.

But you're not as confused as him are you? I mean it's not your job to be as
confused as Nigel is.

It's my job to do what I'm asked to do by the creative element of this band.
And that's what I did. C'mon... The audience were laughing. So it became a
comedy number. Yes it did! Yes it fucking well did, and it was not pleasant
to be part of the comedy on stage. Backstage, perhaps, it was very amusing.

Maybe we just fix the choreography. Keep the dwarf clear. What do you mean?
So they won't trod upon it.

I don't think that's the issue. I think it's symptomatic that maybe you're
taking on more than you can... uh... uh... uh... handle. It's not exactly the
first time you've messed things up is it? I mean there's been some, uh,
gaping holes in the business end.

"Not the first time"... just a minute. Excuse me. This is a band meeting.
Right? Are you here for some reason? Don't worry about it. Don't worry about
it. She's, she's with me. No, but is she now in the band. Is she singing
backup or something? I care what happens to the band. She's with me alright?

David, whenever a single bump or a ruffle comes into this little fantasy,
adolescent fantasy world that you guys, you guys have built around
yourselves... you start screaming like a bunch of pansy hairdressers. I mean
it's just a problem you know. It get's solved... you can't... you can't live
in a bubble. For one thing that goes wrong... one... one single thing that
goes wrong, a hundred things go right. Do you know what I spend my time
doing? I sleep two or three hours a night. There's no sex and drugs for Ian,
David. Do you know what I do? I find lost luggage. I locate mandolin strings
in the middle of Austin! You know? I prise the rent out of the local Hebrews.
That's what I do.

Well maybe you should get someone else to find the lost luggage, and you
should concentrate on what's going on on stage! What Dave is trying to say,
if you'd let him get a word through, is...you could maybe...do with some
help... managing the band. It's that clear. Maybe there's someone already in
the organization. We don't have to pay insurance. We don't have to pay extra
room, etc. Since she's already here, she's already among us, and uh, she
can... she is certainly capable of taking over...

She? She? Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Well who do you think I'm talking
about? Who do you think I'm talking about? I would... I would have never
dreamed in a million years that it was her you were talking about!

Why not? I am offering to help out here. No, you're not offering to help out.
You're offering to co-manage the band with me. Is that it? Yes! In so many
words, that is exactly it. Exactly! I'm certainly not going to co-manage with
some... some... some girl just because she's your girlfriend... Don't call
her my girlfriend! Alright, she's not your girlfriend. I don't know... Oh
girlfriend is it? You couldn't manage a classroom full of kids! I don't know
what you're doing managing a band! Look, look... I... I... this is... this is
my position okay? I am not managing it with you or any other woman,
especially one that dresses like an Australian's nightmare. So fuck you! And
fuck all of you... because I quit! Alright? That's it! Good night!

Can I raise a practical question at this point? Yeah. We gonna do Stonehenge
tomorrow? No we're not gonna fucking do Stonehenge!

Not really, I mean, you know, they go, we've grown up but really it's not,
no, not really... we we feel like children much of the time, even when we're
playing. We're closer than brothers. Brothers always fight, sort of
disagreements, and all that. We really have a relationship that's way, way
past that.

He can't play the fucking guitar anymore. You know the part, you did it this
morning. No, he doesn't know the fucking... if he knew the fucking part he'd
play it, wouldn't he?... Are you walking out? Are you walking out? Great,
just tell me what I'm supposed to do, alright? I'm doing my part... make this
a lot simpler, I mean I hate to cut right through it here, why don't you play
this alone, without some fucking angel hanging over your head, you know what
I mean? You can't fucking concentrate, because of your fucking wife, simple
as that, alright, it's your fucking wife! She's not my wife! Whatever the
fuck she is, alright, you can't concentrate, we can't fucking do the track.

We're very lucky in the sense that we've got two visionaries in the David and
Nigel are both like, uh, like poets, you know, like Shelley or Byron, or
people like that. The two totally distinct types of visionaries, it's like
fire and ice, basically, you see and I feel my role in the band, is to be
kind of in the middle of that, kind of like lukewarm water, in a sense.

I'm Lieutenant Bob Hookstratten. Welcome to the Lindberg Air Force base. This
is your gentlemen's first visit to a military facility? Fine, may I start by
saying how thrilled we are to have you here, we are such fans of your music,
and all of your records. I am not speaking of yours personally, but the whole
genre of the rock and roll... of the exiting things that are happening in the
music today.

Let me explain a bit of what's going on. This is our monthly "at-ease
weekend", gives us the chance to kind of let down our hair, although I see
you all have a head start. These haircuts wouldn't pass military muster,
believe me. Although I shouldn't talk I, my hair's getting a little shaggy
too, better not get too close to you, they'll think I'm part of the band, I
am joking, of course. Shall we go in and I'll show you around.

Walk this way, please, right through here. Did you ever run into a musical
group works out of Kansas City call themselves "Four Jacks and a Jill"?
They've been at a Ramada Inn there for about 18 months. If you're ever in
Kansas City and want to hear some good music, you might want to drop by.

I would like to get the playing on about 1900 hours, if that is satisfactory?
When will that be? I make it now it is about 1830 hours. So that's what?
about 50 hours? 120 hours? That's actually about 30 minutes, about a half
hour, give or take just a few minutes. I don't want to rush you. The idea is
that we get it on and we get it over with and I have just one request, would
you play a couple of slow numbers so I can dance.

He totally ruined the gig, there. He walks off and then you know, he can't be
expected to sit home and get money, we've got to get someone else in there.

Has he ever done this before? Has he ever... quit the band before? No, but
it's... you've got to understand that like in the world of rock and roll
there are certain changes that sometimes occur, and you've just got to, sort
of, roll with them, you know. I mean you read... you read... you saw exactly
how many people who's been in the band over the years, 37 people's been in
this band over the years. I mean It's like, you know, six months from now, I
can't see myself missing Nigel more than I might miss Ross McLochness, or
Ronnie Pudding, or Danny Upham, or Little Danny Schindler, or any of those,
you know, it's...

I can't... I can't believe it. I can't believe it, you know, that, you're
lumping Nigel in with uh you know these people you've played with for a short
period of time... Well, I'm sure I'd feel much worse if I weren't under such
heavy sedation, but still in all, I mean you've got to be realistic about
this sort of thing, you know... So, what happens to the band now? What do
you mean? He's not coming back, or...? No, we, we shan't work together again.

Oh, no! I told them once, I told them a hundred times: put "Spinal Tap" first
and "Puppet show" last. It's a morale builder, isn't it? We've got a big
dressing room, though. What? Got a big dressing room here... Oh, we've got a
bigger dressing room than the puppets? Oh, that's refreshing..

I've got some of this Mendocino Rocket Fuel, that's supposed to be really...
Can you play... excuse me, Viv, can you play a bassline, uh, like Nigel used
to do on "Big Bottom", can you double that? You recall the lines in fifths?
Oh, yeah. I've got two hands here, yeah I can do it.

So, that's good, you can play that one. "Hole" is out, "Heavy" is out..
"Heavy-Hole"... Right, right, right, right... "America" is out... "America"
we can't do, that's Nigel's tune, not my tune. We know, we know, we know, we
know...That's a nice little set, isn't it, that's a cozy ten minutes. What
are we going to do, we've got nothing to play here... I'll tell you what
we're gonna have to do... What? Jazz odyssey! We're not going about to do a
free-form jazz, uh, exploration in front of a festival crowd!

You are witnesses at the new birth of Spinal Tap Mark II, hope you enjoy our
new direction... on the bass: Derek Smalls, he wrote this...

So tonight's the last show of the tour. How's that feel? You know, is like
this your last waltz, are we talkin' the end of Spinal Tap, or are you gonna
try to milk it for a few more years in Europe, I mean... Well, I don't, I
don't really think that the end can be assessed... uh as of itself as being
the end because what does the end feel like, it's like saying when you try to
extrapolate the end of the universe you say the... if the universe is indeed
infinite then how what does that mean? How far is, is, is all the way and
then if it stops what's stoppin' it and what's behind what's stoppin' it, so
what's the end, you know, is my... question to you...

'Sa good crowd. Good crowd. It is, isn't it? Yeah, it really is. I mean, you
know, some of these things just, you know, don't mean much. It was hard to
get at the last minute, you know, you can't arrange it all overnight.

David, we had a fifteen-year ride, mate. 'Mean, who wants to be a fuck'n
forty-five year old rock'n'roller farting around in front of people less than
half their age? Cranking out some kind of mediocre head-banging bullshit, you
know, that we forgot can be?

It would be... it's beneath us... who wants to see that... not me. That's
right... absolutely right. I mean, we could take those projects that we
thought, you know, we didn't have time for... Oh, there's dozens, there's so
many dozens of projects. You know, we didn't have time for 'em because of Tap
and bring 'em back to life maybe. Do you remember what we were... do you
remember the time?... At the Luton... at the Luton Palace... Yes. We were
talking about a rock musical based on the life of Jack the Ripper...
Yeah,'Saucy Jack.' Right.'Saucy Jack.' Now's the time to do that. "Saucy
Jack, you're a naughty one, Saucy Jack, you're a haughty one, Saucy Jack."

It's a freein' up, innit? Yeah. It's all this free time it's suddenly time is
so elastic... It's a gift, it's a gift of freedom. You know. I've always,
I've always wanted to do a collection of my acoustic numbers with, the London
Philharmonic as you know. We're lucky. Yeah. I mean people...people should be
envying us. You know. I envy us. Yeah. I do. Me too.

Come to see the show? So d'you just come here to hang around back stage like
a real rock and roller? Is that what you're doing? I'm really a messenger...
A messenger... Yeah, I bumped into Ian, and... Ian... Ian?... Oh, the other
dead man, yeah. Seems that "Sex Farm" is on the charts in Japan... Spinal
Tap's recording of "Sex Farm". It's number five, last week, actually. So, he,
he, he, um he asked me, to ask you, Tap, if you would be interested reforming
and, uh, doing a tour of Japan. So you've come back to replug our
life-support systems in? Is that it? By the grace of your, of your, uh by the
stroke of your hand... you... is that what you're gonna do?... you are going
to bring us back to life? Is that what you've come here for? I mean it's... I
don't... you've a fucking... nerve that you display in com... No that's it's
I'm just passing on information, really...


Do you feel that playing rock'n'roll...music keeps you a child? That is,
keeps you in a state of arrested development? No... no... no, I feel, it's
like, it's more like going, going to a national park, or something, and
there's, you know, they preserve the moose... and that's, that's my childhood
up there on stage is that moose, you know, and... So, when you're playing you
feel like a preserved moose on stage? Yeah.

I've been listening to the classics, I belong to a... great series um... It's
called the 'Namesake Series' of cassettes... And they send you the works of
famous authors, done by actors with the same last name... so I've got Denham
Elliot reading T.S. Elliot on this one... I've got... Yes, I've got Danny
Thomas doing "A Child's Christmas in Wales" by Dylan Thomas, and... next
month it's Mclean Stephenson reads Robert Louis Stevenson, ah, "Treasure
Island" probably. Yeah... and there's also something... there's uh shorter
works of Washington Irving, read by someone called "Dr. J." Oh, that's Julius
Irving... Julius Irving... Oh! The basketball player. There you go, keeping
with the series, yes. I didn't know that, yeah.

You like this? This is exact... my exact inner structure, done in a T-shirt
exactly, medically accurate, see. So, in other words, if we were to take all
your flesh and blood and every... take them off... and you'd see... exact...
This is what you'd see... It wouldn't be green, though? It is green! You
know, see, see how your blood looks blue? Yeah, well, that's just the vein, I
mean the color of the vein, the blood is actually red.. Oh, maybe it's not
green... anyway, this is what I sleep in sometimes.

Dennis Eaton-Hogg, the president of Polymer Records was recently knighted,
what were the circumstances surrounding his knighthood? The specific reason
why he was knighted was uh for the founding of Hoggwood, which is um, a
summer-camp for pale, young boys.

David St. Hubbins... I must admit I've never heard anybody with that name...
It's an unusual name, well, he was an unusual saint, he's not a very well
known saint. Oh, there actually is, uh... there was a Saint Hubbins? That's
right, yes. What was he the saint of? He was the patron saint of quality
footwear.

You play to predominantly, uh predominantly a white audience, you feel your
music is racist in any way? No! No, no, of course not... We, we say, we say
"love your brother", we don't say it, really, but.. We don't literally say
it. No, we don't say it... at all. No, we don't literally mean it, but we're
not racists. No, we don't believe it either, but... that message should be
clear anyway. We're anything but racists.

You know, we've grown musically... I mean, listen to some of the rubbish we
did early on, it was stupid... Yeah... you know. Now, I mean a song like "Sex
Farm", we've taken the sophisticated view of the idea of sex, you know, and
music... and put it on a farm? Yeah.

If I were to ask you what your philosophy of life, or your creed... what
would that be? "Have... a good... time... all the time." That's my
philosophy, Marty!

I believe virtually everything I read, and I think that is what makes me more
of a selective human, than someone who doesn't believe anything.

Do you have a philosophy, or creed that you live by? Well... like,
personally, I like to think about sex and drugs and rock'n'roll, you know,
that's my life... As long as there is, you know, sex and drugs, I can do
without the rock'n'roll.

If you were to have something written as your epitaph... "Here lies David St.
Hubbins... and why not?" You feel that sums up your... your life? No, it's
the first thing I could think of. It doesn't sum up anything, really.

I'm a real fish nut. I really like fish... What kind of fish? Well, in the
United States, you have cod... I like cod. And I love tuna... those little
cans you've got here... tuna fish... no bones!

If you could not play rock'n roll, what would you do? Well, I suppose I
could, uh, work in a shop of some kind or... or do uh... freelance... selling
of some sort of...uh... product, you know... A salesman, like, maybe in a
haberdasher, or maybe like a... uh a chapeau shop, or something... you know,
like: "Would you...what size do you wear, sir?" and then you answer me. Uh...
seven and a quarter. "I think we have that...", you see, something like that
I could do. "No! We're all out, do you wear black?", see, that sort of thing,
I think I could probably muster up. Yeah, do you think you'd be happy doing
that? Well, I don't know, wh-wh-what are the hours?
